# Part 1: Password generation

In the first part of the project, you'll think through different sets related to passwords, and calculate the sizes of those sets. The sizes of the sets of possible passwords will act as a lens for thinking about the probabilities involved with guessing passwords, as well as to start building an intution for how 'secure' a password is.

## A set of pins

Here's an example of the set of 2-digit pin numbers, using the digits 0-9.

{ 00, 01, 02, 03... 09,
  10, 11, 12, 13... 19,
  20, 21, 22, 23... 29,
  ...
  90, 91, 92, 93... 99}

It's all the permutations of two digits. Since there are 10 options for each choice, and two choices, the total number of possibilities is 10^2, so 100 possible 2-digit pin numbers. With only 100 possible pin numbers, this probably isn't very secure.

Here's one way to think about the insecurity: if you and your classmate each chose a 2-digit pin code, you'd have a 1% chance of choosing the same code.

## Now you try: 4-digit pin

1. Calculate the size of the set of 4-digit numeric pin codes.

2. Then, calculate the probability that your classmate would choose the same code as you, if you each chose randomly.

## More password schemes

3. For each of the following password schemes, compute the size of the set generated by the scheme, and the probability of two randomly-chosen passwords colliding.

- S0: 2-digit numeric pin [0-9]
- S1: 4 digit numeric pin [0-9]
- S2: 8 digit numeric pin [0-9]
- S3: 8 character lowercase alphabetic password [a-z]
- S4: 8 character alphabetic password, upper- and lowercase [A-Z][a-z]
- S5: 8 character alphanumeric password [A-Z][a-z][0-9]
- S6: 8 to 12 character password, alphanumeric plus spaces and symbols [A-Z][a-z][0-9][~`!@#$%^&*()-_+=,<.>/?:;'"[{]}]
- S7: 8 to 12 character password, same set as S6, but with restrictions:
    - must use at least one number
    - must use at least one uppercase and one lowercase character
    - must use at least one symbol

| Name 	| Size 	| % chance of collision 	|
|------	|------	|-----------------------	|
| S0   	| 100  	| 1%                    	|
| S1   	|      	|                       	|
| S2   	|      	|                       	|
| S3   	|      	|                       	|
| S4   	|      	|                       	|
| S5   	|      	|                       	|
| S6   	|      	|                       	|
| S7   	|      	|                       	|

4. Compare schemes S1 through S6 - which seems most secure? Explain your reasoning.

5. Compare S6 to S7 - which seems more secure? Which is more common? What is your hypothesis as to why S7 may be preferred to S6?

## How to submit your work

Create a file in this repository called `1-answers.md`. Write your answers to each of the prompts 1-5 in that file. For prompt 3, you can copy the table provided and fill it out for each of the password schemes S1 through S7.