src/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Mathematical Thinking

[Mathematical Thinking](mathematical-thinking.md)
[Problem Sets and Guiding Questions](weekly-assignments.md)
[Midterm Project](midterm-project.md)
[Final Project](final-project.md)
[Problem Set 0](homework/problem-sets/week0.md)
[Live Classes](live-classes.md)

## Lessons

- [Propositional Logic](lessons/propositional-logic.md)
  - [Propositions and statements](lessons/propositional-logic/propositions.md)
  - [Logical conjunctions](lessons/propositional-logic/logical-conjunctions.md)
  - [Negation](lessons/propositional-logic/negation.md)
  - [Implication](lessons/propositional-logic/implication.md)
  - [If and only if](lessons/propositional-logic/iff.md)
  - [Problem Set 1](homework/problem-sets/week1.md)

- [Sets](lessons/sets.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week2.md)
  - [Key Set Definitions](lessons/sets/set_definitions.md)
  - [Set Operations](lessons/sets/set_operations.md)
  - [Subsets](lessons/sets/subsets.md)
  - [Visualizing sets](lessons/sets/visualizing_sets.md)
  - [Problem Set 2](homework/problem-sets/week2.md)

- [Proofs](lessons/proofs.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week3.md)
  - [Direct Proofs](lessons/proofs/direct_proofs.md)
  - [First Order Logic](lessons/proofs/first_order_logic.md)
  - [Proofs by contrapositive](lessons/proofs/indirect_proofs_contrapositive.md)
  - [Proofs by contradiction](lessons/proofs/indirect_proofs_contradiction.md)
  - [Problem Set 3](homework/problem-sets/week3.md)


- [Counting](lessons/counting.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week4.md)
  - [Permutations](lessons/counting/permutations.md)
  - [Permutations with Repetition](lessons/counting/permutations_repetition.md)
  - [Combinations](lessons/counting/combinations.md)
  - [Combinations with Repetition](lessons/counting/combinations_repetition.md)
  - [Problem Set 4](homework/problem-sets/week4.md)

- [Probability](lessons/probability.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week5.md)
  - [Intro to Probability](lessons/probability/probability_intro.md)
  - [Combining Events](lessons/probability/complex_events.md)
  - [Conditional Probability](lessons/probability/conditional_probability.md)
  - [Case study: The Monty Hall Problem](lessons/probability/case_study.md)
  - [Problem Set 5](homework/problem-sets/week5.md)

<!-- - [Functions and Relations](lessons/functions-and-relations.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week6.md)
  - [Problem Set 6](homework/problem-sets/week6.md)

- [Number Systems](lessons/number-systems.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week7.md)
  - [Problem Set 7](homework/problem-sets/week7.md)

- [Number Theory](lessons/number-theory.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week8.md)
  - [Problem Set 8](homework/problem-sets/week8.md)

- [Modular Arithmetic](lessons/modular-arithmetic.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week9.md)
  - [Problem Set 9](homework/problem-sets/week9.md)

- [Review and Preview](lessons/review.md)
 -->

Commit message:

first pass on functions content

src/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Mathematical Thinking

[Mathematical Thinking](mathematical-thinking.md)
[Problem Sets and Guiding Questions](weekly-assignments.md)
[Midterm Project](midterm-project.md)
[Final Project](final-project.md)
[Problem Set 0](homework/problem-sets/week0.md)
[Live Classes](live-classes.md)

## Lessons

- [Propositional Logic](lessons/propositional-logic.md)
  - [Propositions and statements](lessons/propositional-logic/propositions.md)
  - [Logical conjunctions](lessons/propositional-logic/logical-conjunctions.md)
  - [Negation](lessons/propositional-logic/negation.md)
  - [Implication](lessons/propositional-logic/implication.md)
  - [If and only if](lessons/propositional-logic/iff.md)
  - [Problem Set 1](homework/problem-sets/week1.md)

- [Sets](lessons/sets.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week2.md)
  - [Key Set Definitions](lessons/sets/set_definitions.md)
  - [Set Operations](lessons/sets/set_operations.md)
  - [Subsets](lessons/sets/subsets.md)
  - [Visualizing sets](lessons/sets/visualizing_sets.md)
  - [Problem Set 2](homework/problem-sets/week2.md)

- [Proofs](lessons/proofs.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week3.md)
  - [Direct Proofs](lessons/proofs/direct_proofs.md)
  - [First Order Logic](lessons/proofs/first_order_logic.md)
  - [Proofs by contrapositive](lessons/proofs/indirect_proofs_contrapositive.md)
  - [Proofs by contradiction](lessons/proofs/indirect_proofs_contradiction.md)
  - [Problem Set 3](homework/problem-sets/week3.md)


- [Counting](lessons/counting.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week4.md)
  - [Permutations](lessons/counting/permutations.md)
  - [Permutations with Repetition](lessons/counting/permutations_repetition.md)
  - [Combinations](lessons/counting/combinations.md)
  - [Combinations with Repetition](lessons/counting/combinations_repetition.md)
  - [Problem Set 4](homework/problem-sets/week4.md)

- [Probability](lessons/probability.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week5.md)
  - [Intro to Probability](lessons/probability/probability_intro.md)
  - [Combining Events](lessons/probability/complex_events.md)
  - [Conditional Probability](lessons/probability/conditional_probability.md)
  - [Case study: The Monty Hall Problem](lessons/probability/case_study.md)
  - [Problem Set 5](homework/problem-sets/week5.md)

- [Functions and Relations](lessons/functions-and-relations.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week6.md)
  - [Relations](lessons/functions/relations.md)
  - [Functions](lessons/functions/functions.md)
  - [Properties of functions](lessons/functions/properties.md)
  - [Composition of functions](lessons/functions/properties.md)
  - [Problem Set 6](homework/problem-sets/week6.md)

<!-- - [Number Systems](lessons/number-systems.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week7.md)
  - [Problem Set 7](homework/problem-sets/week7.md)

- [Number Theory](lessons/number-theory.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week8.md)
  - [Problem Set 8](homework/problem-sets/week8.md)

- [Modular Arithmetic](lessons/modular-arithmetic.md)
  - [Guiding Question](homework/the-question/week9.md)
  - [Problem Set 9](homework/problem-sets/week9.md)

- [Review and Preview](lessons/review.md)
  -->
